# 3.1 内存

在PHP中，声明一个字符串


在PHP里，我们可以定义字符串变量，比如<?php $str="hello";?>，$str这个字符串变量可以被自由的修改与复制等。这一切在C语言里看起来都是不可能的事情，我们用#char *p = "hello";#来定义一个字符串，但它是常量，是不能被修改的，如果你用p[1]='c';来修改这个字符串会引发段错误(Gcc,c99)，为了修改C语言里的字符串常量，我们往往需要定义字符串数组。为了得到一个能够让我们自由修改的字符串，我们往往需要用strdup函数来复制一个字符串出来。



Memory
In PHP, populating a string variable is as simple as <?php $str = 'hello world'; ?> and the string can be freely
modified, copied, and moved around. In C, on the other hand, although you could start with a simple static string
such as char *str = "hello world";, that string cannot be modified because it lives in program space. To create a
manipulable string, you'd have to allocate a block of memory and copy the contents in using a function such as

	strdup().
	{
		char *str;
		str = strdup("hello world");
		if (!str) {
		fprintf(stderr, "Unable to allocate memory!");
		}
	}


is handled in a request and release fashion. An application says to the
layer above it (usually the operating system) "I want some number of bytes of memory to use as I please." If there
is space available, the operating system offers it to the program and makes a note not to give that chunk of memory
out to anyone else.
When the application is done using the memory, it's expected to give it back to the OS so that it can be allocated
elsewhere. If the program doesn't give the memory back, the OS has no way of knowing that it's no longer being
used and can be allocated again by another process. If a block of memory is not freed, and the owning application
has lost track of it, then it's said to have "leaked" because it's simply no longer available to anyone.
In a typical client application, small infrequent leaks are sometimes tolerated with the knowledge that the process
will end after a short period of time and the leaked memory will be implicitly returned to the OS. This is no great feat
as the OS knows which program it gave that memory to, and it can be certain that the memory is no longer needed
when the program terminates.
With long running server daemons, including web servers like Apache and by extension mod_php, the process is
designed to run for much longer periods, often indefinitely. Because the OS can't clean up memory usage, any
degree of leakageno matter how smallwill tend to build up over time and eventually exhaust all system resources.
Consider the userspace stristr() function; in order to find a string using a caseinsensitive search, it actually
creates a lowercase copy of both the haystack and the needle, and then performs a more traditional case-sensitive
search to find the relative offset. After the offset of the string has been located, however, it no longer has use for
the lowercase versions of the haystack and needle strings. If it didn't free these copies, then every script that used
stristr() would leak some memory every time it was called. Eventually the web server process would own all the
system memory, but not be able to use it.
The ideal solution, I can hear you shouting, is to write good, clean, consistent code, and that's absolutely true. In
an environment like the PHP interpreter, however, that's only half the solution.
Error Handling
In order to provide the ability to bail out of an active request to userspace scripts and the extension functions they
rely on, a means needs to exist to jump out of an active request entirely. The way this is handled within the Zend
Engine is to set a bailout address at the beginning of a request, and then on any die() or exit() call, or on
encountering any critical error (E_ERROR) perform a longjmp() to that bailout address.
Although this bailout process simplifies program flow, it almost invariably means that resource cleanup code (such as
free() calls) will be skipped and memory could get leaked. Consider this simplified version of the engine code that
handles function calls: